---
layout: default
title: numpy
nav_order: 3
has_children: false
parent: Coding Fundamental
permalink: /docs/coding-fundamental/numpy
math: mathjax
---

# Numpy
{: .fs-9 }

[Document](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/).
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Introduction
NumPy is the fundamental package for scientific computing in Python. It is a Python library that provides a multidimensional array object, various derived objects (such as masked arrays and matrices), and an assortment of routines for fast operations on arrays, including mathematical, logical, shape manipulation, sorting, selecting, I/O, discrete Fourier transforms, basic linear algebra, basic statistical operations, random simulation and much more.

## numpy.random.seed
* Reseed the singleton RandomState instance.
{: .text-delta }
```python
np.random.seed(42)
```
*  sets the seed for random number generation to 42 using NumPy's random module. 
*  This is done to ensure reproducibility in your code.
*  By setting the seed, you ensure that the sequence of random numbers generated by NumPy functions will be the same every time the code is run.
  

### np.random.choice
```python
  n_edits = min(10000, len(questions))
  shuffle_ix = np.random.choice(n_edits, n_edits, replace=False)
```
* This line generates a random permutation of the first `n_edits` integers.
* The first n_edits parameter specifies the number of random samples to draw from the population.
* The second n_edits parameter specifies the number of samples to draw.
* The replace=False parameter ensures that the samples are drawn without replacement, i.e., each sample is unique.
* ix means index, so shuffle_ix is a list of randomly shuffled indices.

### np.intersect1d
````python
  np.intersect1d(preds.cpu().squeeze(), gold_toks)
```
* This function from NumPy finds the intersection of two arrays, returning the unique values that are present in both arrays. When applied to preds.cpu().squeeze() and gold_toks, it returns an array of elements that are common to both, effectively identifying the predictions that exactly match the gold tokens.


