---
layout: default
title: Seminar Reflection 5
parent: Graduate Seminar
grand_parent: VT Courses
permalink: /docs/vt-courses/graduate-seminar/seminar5/
---

# CS Graduate Seminar Spring 2024
{: .fs-9 }
<!-- ./grace/main.py is the main file to kick off experiments. -->
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

## Seminar Reflection 5

### Machine Learning Virtual Reality Data
{: .fs-5 }
Ryan McMahan
{: .fs-3 }

Tuesday, 2/13, 2024
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

In this seminar, Prof. Ryan McMahan, a graduate of Virginia Tech and currently from the University of Central Florida, presented his research on applying machine learning to virtual reality (VR) interaction data to enhance user experiences. He delved into various studies and experiments, focusing on predicting learning outcomes, identifying VR users through their interaction data, and examining the effect of different tracking devices and data representations on user identification accuracy. McMahan's research has explored the potential of VR data for customizing user experiences, such as customizing avatars for better immersion and personalization. His work emphasizes the rich kinematic data generated by VR applications, which, when analyzed with machine learning techniques, offer insights into users' learning outcomes, identity, and interaction patterns.

Prof. McMahan's presentation impressively covers a broad spectrum of applications for machine learning in analyzing VR interaction data. His methodical approach to investigating the predictability of learning outcomes and user identification through VR data showcases the depth of his research. However, while the seminar offers substantial insights into the potential of VR data for enhancing user experiences, it could benefit from a clearer delineation of the practical applications of these findings. Additionally, a more detailed discussion on the challenges encountered and the limitations of current methodologies would provide a more balanced view of the research's scope and applicability. Nonetheless, McMahan's work contributes significantly to the field, opening avenues for further research and practical applications in VR technology.